---
title: Morph's Staking Design
lang: en-US
keywords: [morph,ethereum,rollup,layer2,validity proof,optimstic zk-rollup]
description: Upgrade your blockchain experience with Morph - the secure decentralized, cost0efficient, and high-performing optimstic zk-rollup solution. Try it now!
---


## Understanding Staking in Morph's Decentralized Sequencer Network

Staking serves as a pivotal component within the decentralized sequencer network of Morph, aiming to fortify the network's security through the prism of cryptographic economics. When delving into the realm of Staking, two primary categories come to the forefront:

### ETH Staking

In the realm of Ethereum, Sequencers are mandated to stake a designated amount of ETH into the Staking Contract as a prerequisite for joining the sequencer network. This ETH collateralization serves to elevate the cost of malicious behavior by Sequencers. In instances where a Sequencer's dishonest or negligent actions are verified, their staked ETH is subject to confiscation.

The quantity of ETH staked is subject to collective governance by the community and Sequencers. To enhance capital efficiency, a portion of this staked ETH is channeled into the Restaking product to yield returns, with the specifics of the profit distribution mechanism yet to be finalized.

### Morph Staking

$MORPH emerges as Morph's native token within the Staking framework, embodying the following roles:

Sequencers are mandated to engage in elections by staking and delegating staked Morph tokens. The election outcomes are determined based on the staked value of Morph, necessitating Sequencers to augment their Morph collateral to secure a slot in the Sequencer collective. Failure to secure a position in the election bars access to the Sequencer set and the network rewards.

Regular users can delegate stake their Morph tokens to a Staker, influencing the Staker's eligibility for inclusion in the Sequencer set. Both Sequencers and users who delegate stake are entitled to proportionate rewards from the increased issuance of Morph tokens and a share of network revenues.

At present, only Sequencers possess governance rights for proposals and voting. Subsequently, voting rights will extend to all delegates who stake their Morph tokens.

## Key Design Aspects

### Sequencer Set Selection

The determination of the Sequencer set hinges on two key principles:

Selected Sequencers must stake a fixed amount of ETH at Layer 1.
In scenarios where the number of Sequencers vying for election surpasses the current Sequencer set limit, the top X Sequencer nodes are chosen based on their Morph Staking amounts in descending order to constitute the current Sequencer set.
The Sequencer set undergoes real-time modifications based on the aforementioned principles and is periodically synchronized.

Inclusion in the Sequencer set signifies that all Sequencers are empowered to partake in network operations and reap rewards generated by network activities, concurrently bearing the responsibility of ensuring the network's efficient operation.

In practice, each Sequencer, irrespective of their staked Morph quantity, carries equal weight, thereby garnering commensurate rewards from processing Layer 2 transactions.

Sequencers retain the liberty to opt-out at any juncture. They are required to submit an exit application at Layer 1, entering a lock-up period. Upon completion of the exit process at Layer 2 and reaching the unlock period, the staked amount can be reclaimed.

### Rewards, Penalties, and Slashing

#### Rewards:

User Rewards: MORPH holders can delegate stake their MORPH tokens to Sequencers, entitling them to rewards such as periodic issuance rewards for MORPH.

Sequencer Rewards:
Morph issuance rewards for block production as a Sequencer.
Rewards obtained as a Submitter for Rollup activities.
Apart from rewards, Sequencers can also access income streams such as Restaking yield from ETH staked at Layer 1.

#### Penalties and Slashing

To safeguard the network's security against fraudulent activities by Sequencers, certain regulations are mandated:

Validators can challenge a fixed batch, with all Sequencers who signed that batch collectively standing as the challenged party. Successful challenges result in all Sequencers forfeiting their staked amounts and being removed from the Sequencer set.
In instances where a Sequencer, while rotating as a batch submitter, frequently experiences timeouts, a certain threshold of penalties or removal from the Sequencer set is enforced.
Sequencers are rewarded during the consensus generation of L2 blocks based on their block production frequency. Prolonged absence in block production leads to removal from the Sequencer set.

To facilitate rewards and penalties, the following contract components are essential:

**Record:** Data impacting rewards and penalties is collected off-chain via an Oracle and recorded in the L2 Record contract, encompassing Rollup and Block data.
**Distribute:** Sequencers and Delegate Stakers can manually claim rewards based on the data recorded in the Record contract.

### Morph Ecosystem Governance

Presently, only Sequencers possess the authority for core parameter governance proposals and voting. Future iterations aim to grant proposal and voting rights to all Morph stakers.